# push_swap
Push Swap - Project at 42 school (42 Wolfsburg)

Objective is to come up with an algorithm that finds efficient number of operands on a stack to order numbers in an ascending order given one aditional stack. The operands are push from stack x to y, swap top to numbers of stack a or b, rotate or revese rotate stacks or operations where both stacks undergo same operation.

Personal Experience:
The project was interesting because I learned more about sorting algorithms, especially Quick Sort and Merge Sort both with an array and linked lists. Then I learned how the algorithm can be modified to meet my specific needs to solve the push swap project. Initially I made my own algorithm to sort stack which was extremely ineficient. The algorithm first found the min value from the stack a and rotated it until it was on top of the stack, then it was pushed to the top of stack b. When stack a was emptied this way, all the numbers from stack b was pushed back to stack a. Since the stack b was organized in descening order, pushing them back to stack a, the data was orginized in ascending order (from top of stack). This was easy to do, but then I had to choose whether I could find cases where I could optimize the code to decrease the number of operands. However, I saw myself being able to do this. I don't know if I would be successfull in finding sufficiently less number of operands to order the stack but I saw myself writing a lot of code but eventually not learning much except improving my code writing. Therefore, I wanted to integrate a sorting algorithm with the Push Swap project, because even though I learned this algorithms, I did not see how it could have been merged with the project. I am glad I made this decision because not only did I learn how to integrate two different concepts, but I also learned to visualize an algorithm in my head and solve it on a more abstract way in my head or on paper using diagrams before writing it into code. This is a skill that I see as important because as projects become bigger, I need to have a big picture view before solving a problem. Additionally, I face different types of bugs and since the number of files were becoming bigger, I could not longer use the debuging feature of VS Code because it does not work on multiple files (or at least I could not find a way to do it. I already had read about GDB debugger and now came the time when I had to implement it, facing bugs that I couldn't find with printf I had to search how to use GDB to debug my code. I used it, and each time I used it, I saw myself getting comfotable enough. since I was working with linked list, I could not print all the values at once as it is possible with an array of numbers. Therefore, I searched for ways to print linked list, I found that I need to create my own code to print linked list while debugging. Now I can see that if I use gdb another week, I will not want to debug with the inbuilt VS Code debugger anymore. These are some of the main things I learned from doing this project and I am glad that I kept trying to solve a problem, when I conceptually understood how to do it instead of using external source, because otherwise I wouldn't learn this.
